- [Instructor] So now that we've put
a stored function into the database and manipulated it,
we're going to take a look at a different way of interacting
with data in the database.
And that's through ordering and limiting.
And while this is not an actual JDBC operation,
we're going to leverage it in the next video
to do JDBC type operations.
So we need to talk about how ordering and limiting works
within SQL itself.
So let's jump over to our IDE and we're going to open up
our learning JDBC project,
source main Java, our base package.
And we're going to start in our customer DAO.
So like we've done so many times before
we're going to put a string at the beginning of our class.
All right. So private static, final string.
And we're going to call this one, get all limit,
and then we'll set it equal to select customer ID.
First name,
last name,
email,
phone,
address,
city, state,
zip code from customer,
order by
last name, comma, first name
with a limit of our question mark and terminate.
And that's the SQL statement
that we're going to leverage.
So let's jump down here
and we will create a new method,
public list of customer, call it,
find all sorted,
and we're going to pass in a value for the limit.
And now, like we've done so many times,
we're going to go ahead and actually execute our statements.
So we will get a list of customers.
We once said that he go to a new array list
and then we will do our try
and then we will catch our SQL exception
and let's just go ahead and important that array list.
Excellent. Okay.
So now we can actually do our method itself.
So we will passing it on our statement, the perimeter,
and as you might guess,
it's going to be the first one and it's going to be limit.
And then we can just map everything back out.
After we do our results set,
I'm going to make this results at mapping a little bit faster.
We're going to scroll up here towards the top,
to our find by ID and we're going to copy this data.
And then in our method, we will create a customer.
We will paste that data,
checking our parameters to make sure that everything
is correct and in order.
And then we will add to our array, our customer.
And then at the end of the method,
we can simply return our customers.
So now let's test this out. Let's open up our JDBC executer.
So we're going to swap out a little bit of code here.
So after we get our connection, we'll do a customer DAO
passing and of course our connection
we will call the find all sorted method
passing at 20 and now we do a for each.
And we will do a system that out colon, colon prep, mine.
So now we can run our method
and you'll see we've got a set of results
that set of results is sorted,
and there's only 20 of them.
There's actually a thousand in the database.
So if we'd done a full get all,
we would've gotten a thousand records back out,
but instead we only got 20 and they're ordered,
as we told to my last name, and then first name,
as you can see here on the first couple of lines where we
have Brandon Adams and then Deborah Adams,
that's all there is to ordering and limiting.
And now I'm going to show you how to use this
in a real world application.